Kafka client code examples (#753)
redpanda-data/documentation: docs/development/guide-nodejs.mdx

---
title: Node.js Code Example
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Node.js Code Example | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda using Node.js."/>
</head>

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

If you haven't already, install Node by following the appropriate steps for
your OS [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

> Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means

Reviewer: So, I discovered today that we only need to use the trademark when we say "Apache Kafka".

> Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda is Kafka API-compatible, which means
```

that although Redpanda is relatively new, you can leverage the countless client
libraries created for Kafka® (if you find something that is not supported,
reach out to our team on our <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>).

> In this example we will use [kafkajs](https://kafka.js.org/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example you will use [kafkajs](https://kafka.js.org/).
```

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-node
cd redpanda-node
# Generate package.json (use the default values)
npm init
# Install required dependencies
npm i -D typescript
npm i -D @types/node
npm i kafkajs
npm i uuid
npm i -D @types/uuid
# Generate tsconfig.json
tsc --init
```

## Set up a Redpanda environment

> Follow our [60-second guides](../../quickstart) to spin up a development

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Follow the [Quickstarts](../../quickstart) to spin up a development
```

environment on your platform of choice.

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

> ## Creating a topic

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create a topic
```

partitions and replicas. You can list all created topics with:
```bash
$ rpk topic list
NAME       PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
chat-room  1           1
```

You can create topics programmatically too:

```javascript title="src/admin.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const admin = redpanda.admin()

export function createTopic(topic: string, partitions?: number, replicas?: number) {
  return admin.connect().then(() => {
    admin.createTopics({
      topics: [{
        topic: topic,
        numPartitions: partitions ? partitions : 1,
        replicationFactor: replicas ? replicas : 1,
      }]
    }).then(() => admin.disconnect())
  })
}
```

Now that you have a cluster up and running, and a topic to store your data, you can 
build a producer and consumer.

## Producer code

```javascript title="src/producer.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const producer = redpanda.producer()

export function getConnection(user: string) {
  return producer.connect().then(() => {
    return (message: string) => {

>       return producer.send({

Reviewer 2: @jrkinley Can we not use async/await rather than callbacks here?

Author: @weeco either works. I actually didn't write the `Node.js` guide. I've just made a few tweaks to it as part of this PR to better align it with the other code examples.

---
title: Node.js Code Example
---

<head>
    <meta name="title" content="Node.js Code Example | Redpanda Docs"/>
    <meta name="description" content="How to produce to and consume from Redpanda using Node.js."/>
</head>

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

If you haven't already, install Node by following the appropriate steps for
your OS [here](https://nodejs.org/en/download/package-manager/).

> As you may have heard by now, Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means
> that although Redpanda is relatively new, you can leverage the countless client
> libraries created for Kafka® (if you find something that is not supported,
> reach out to our team on our <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Redpanda is Kafka® API-compatible, which means
that although Redpanda is relatively new, you can leverage the countless client
libraries created for Kafka® (if you find something that is not supported,
reach out to our team on our <a href="https://redpanda.com/slack">Slack</a>).
```

In this example we will use [kafkajs](https://kafka.js.org/).

```bash
# Create and enter the project folder
mkdir redpanda-node
cd redpanda-node

> # Generate package.json (the default values are fine)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Generate package.json (use the default values)
```

npm init

> # Install needed dependencies

Reviewer: are these required? If so, I'd replace "needed" with "required"

npm i -D typescript
npm i -D @types/node
npm i kafkajs
npm i uuid
npm i -D @types/uuid
# Generate tsconfig.json
tsc --init
```

> ## Setup a Redpanda environment

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Set up a Redpanda environment
```

Follow our [60-second guides](../../quickstart) to spin up a development
environment on your platform of choice.

:::caution
If you're running Redpanda on your laptop, or in a shared development
environment, then avoid Redpanda's optimized production settings. Running
`sudo rpk redpanda tune all` or manually configuring Redpanda for production
might affect your experience with other applications running on your machine.
:::

## Creating a topic

The easiest way to create topics is using
[rpk](../reference/rpk/rpk-commands.mdx):

```bash
$ rpk topic create chat-room
TOPIC      STATUS
chat-room  OK
```

This will create a topic named `chat-room`, with the default number of
partitions and replicas. You can list all created topics with:
```bash
$ rpk topic list
NAME       PARTITIONS  REPLICAS
chat-room  1           1
```

> It's just as easy to create topics programmatically too:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create topics programmatically too:
```

```javascript title="src/admin.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const admin = redpanda.admin()

export function createTopic(topic: string, partitions?: number, replicas?: number) {
  return admin.connect().then(() => {
    admin.createTopics({
      topics: [{
        topic: topic,
        numPartitions: partitions ? partitions : 1,
        replicationFactor: replicas ? replicas : 1,
      }]
    }).then(() => admin.disconnect())
  })
}
```

> Now that we have a cluster up and running, and a topic to store our data, let's
> build a producer and consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a cluster up and running, and a topic to store your data, you can 
build a producer and consumer.
```

## Producer code

```javascript title="src/producer.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const producer = redpanda.producer()

export function getConnection(user: string) {
  return producer.connect().then(() => {
    return (message: string) => {
      return producer.send({
        topic: "chat-room",
        messages: [{value: JSON.stringify({message, user})},],
      })
    }
  })
}

export function disconnect() {
  return producer.disconnect()
}
```

> That's it, a working producer that sends strings entered by the user to the 
> `chat-room` topic. We are sending the messages as JSON encoded strings here,
> but keep in mind that the producer just sends buffers, so you can encode the
> messages however you like.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You now have a working producer that sends strings entered by the user to the 
`chat-room` topic. Messages are sent as JSON encoded strings here,
but keep in mind that the producer just sends buffers, so you can encode the
messages however you like.
```

## Consumer code

```javascript title="src/consumer.ts"
import {Kafka} from "kafkajs"
import {v4 as uuidv4} from "uuid"

const redpanda = new Kafka({
  brokers: ["localhost:9092"]
})
const consumer = redpanda.consumer({groupId: uuidv4()})

export function connect() {
  return consumer.connect().then(() =>
    consumer.subscribe({topic: "chat-room"}).then(() =>
      consumer.run({
        eachMessage: async ({topic, partition, message}) => {
          const formattedValue = JSON.parse((message.value as Buffer).toString())
          console.log(`${formattedValue.user}: ${formattedValue.message}`)
        },
      })
    )
  )
}

export function disconnect() {
  consumer.disconnect()
}
```

> There you have it. A consumer that will read all messages from the `chat-room`
> topic and print them to the console. You can start as many consumer groups as
> you like, but bear in mind that each group will read a message on once. That's
> why the example is using a generated uuid for the group id.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this point you have a consumer that will read all messages from the `chat-room`
topic and print them to the console. You can start as many consumer groups as
you like, but bear in mind that each group will read a message only once, which is
why the example is using a generated uuid for the group ID.
```

import * as Admin from "./admin"
import * as Producer from "./producer"
import * as Consumer from "./consumer"

const rl = readline.createInterface({
  input: process.stdin,
  output: process.stdout
})

function start() {
  const topic = "chat-room"
  console.log(`Creating topic: ${topic}`)
  Admin.createTopic(topic).then(() => {
    console.log("Connecting...")
    Consumer.connect().then(() => {
      rl.question("Enter user name: \n", function (username) {
        Producer.getConnection(username).then((sendMessage) => {
          console.log("Connected, press Ctrl+C to exit")
          rl.on("line", (input) => {
            readline.moveCursor(process.stdout, 0, -1)
            sendMessage(input);
          })
        })
      })
    })
  })  
}
start()

process.on("SIGINT", process.exit)
process.on("exit", () => {
  Producer.disconnect();
  Consumer.disconnect();
  rl.close();
})
``` 

## Running

```bash
tsc src/index.js && node src/index.js
```

Run this at least twice so that you can chat between two terminals, but you can
run as many as you like.

## Wrapping up

Now you have the basic building blocks for working with Redpanda using Node.js.

> Try it yourself, there are endless use cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```
